[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The spectacular first images
from the James Webb Space
Telescope are finally here,
and they do not disappoint.
What this means for the future.
This is "Gaia News".
[MUSIC PLAYING]
After years of planning,
construction, and delays,
and a cost of about
10 billion US dollars,
we finally have the first
images from the James Webb Space
Telescope.
Launched in December
of 2021, the JWST
is the largest and most
powerful space telescope ever
to be put in space.
Astronomers have
waited a lifetime
to see with such amazing
clarity deep into space.
James Webb does
this by operating
in the infrared spectrum.
It sees light that is
outside the visible spectrum
of our naked eye and of previous
telescopes like the Hubble.
NASA released photos of
the first five targets
noting, quote, "These first
images from the world's largest
and most powerful
space telescope
demonstrate Webb
at its full power,
ready to begin its mission to
unfold the infrared universe".
Here to break down the photos,
astronomer and "Gaia News"
contributor Marc
Dantonio who we caught up
with on the road in Arizona.
>> I saw these images and
the release of all these five
different images represent a
different aspect of what this
telescope can do.
Absolutely astonishing to me.
From galaxies to gas
clouds, this telescope hands
down has the ability
to show us so
much that we don't understand.
>> Most laypeople are
impressed by the images,
but what does an astronomer see?
What should we be looking for?
>> If you look at
that large-scale shot,
the deep field shot that the
James Webb Space Telescope
took, that image encompasses
a whole bunch of things.
You see a whole bunch
happening there.
In one case, you see galaxies
that look like they have--
they're stretched and curved.
That is called
gravitational lensing,
and we're seeing the
result of a galaxy cluster
that's in the foreground
warping the images of galaxies
behind it.
Those red galaxies on the
outside, those galaxies
are literally 13.6
billion years old.
These were formed just after
the very Big Bang itself.
This is kind of
cool, I should say.
It's filling in the gaps.
We haven't been able to
see back that far with any
of our instrumentation.
And when you say
see back that far,
it really means the galaxies are
so far away and moving so fast
away from us that
their light has all
shifted into the far infrared
where none of our telescopes
have been able to
penetrate until now.
>> How will this help in the
search for extraterrestrial
life?
>> This telescope is going
to help us with the search
for life when it starts looking
at exoplanet atmospheres.
Now, it looked at the
WASP planet atmosphere,
and they could see chemical
traces in the atmospheres.
This is something that's
extremely important,
because right now
up to this point
we have not been able to
really accurately look
at atmospheres of planets
around other stars.
Now we have that
capability, and this
is going to herald in an
era of potentially finding
another Earth-like planet
with an oxygenated atmosphere.
>> What does this latest
discovery mean for the future
of astronomy, space
exploration, and even humanity?
>> You look at the James Webb
Space Telescope and the data
they're pulling in, and in a
sense all of these projects
embody the human need to
find answers and that's what
we're doing.
We're hunting down answers
to whether we're alone
in the universe and
we're trying to solve
mysteries of the universe.
And the Webb's first
five images have already
started to solve a huge
number of mysteries.
>> For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News".
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.